EXERCISE 2

* cat file1 file2 file3 | grep grape *

using the "cat" command with parameters "file1 file2 file3" takes the contents of these three
files combined as the input, making it available for further use with other commands.
If no other commands are issued, the content would be outputted to the terminal window.
Since here the command "|" (pipe) is used in conjunction, the output of the cat command is instead
used as input for the "grep" command with parameter "grape". This searches the content of the
input for the string "grape". If any matches are found, the lines which contains the string
"grape" are outputted to the terminal window, since this is the default output.


* cat file1 file2 file3 file4 | grep cat *

this command is almost identical to the first. this time the contents of file1, file2, file3 and file4
are used as input for the grep command with parameter cat.


* who | wc -l *

the command "who" gives you information about who is logged into the system, what processes
they are running, and when they logged into the system. since we are using the "|" command,
we are piping the output of the "who" command to the input of the "wc" command with parameter "-l".
the "wc" command takes an input and outputs the wordcount. since we are using the parameter"-l",
it outputs the amount of lines in the input. since the input is the "who" command, and this
command outputs one line per logged in user, this effectively outputs an integer telling us
how many users are logged into the system.


* who | wc -l > file1 *

this is almost identical to the previous command, with the difference being that this time the 
output is written to a file called "file1" instead of being outputted to the terminal window.


* sort < file1 > file2 *

this command takes the contents of file1 as input to the "sort" command and outputs the sorted
content to file2. the "sort" command alphabetically or numerically sorts a list.


EXERCISE 3

1. Which command (and its options) are used to completely remove an empty directory?

To completely remove an empty directory, one would use the "rmdir" command.
"--ignore-fail-on-non-empty" does not output error messages for failures caused by non-empty directories.
"-p" removes all directories in a path if they are empty. rmdir -p a/b/c would remove directories
a, b and c.
"-v" outputs a diagnostic for every directory processed
"--help" displays available optional commands
"--version" outputs version information


2. What would you type in your terminal to learn more about command "pwd"?

"pwd --help" would output available optional commands.
"man pwd" gives you a full overview of what the command does, how to format potential options
and other parameters, and all available optional commands. It also includes a link to the
full documentation.
